I envision Ayni being the tool that many pymes lack in Chile and South America. Being able to track your business during time is not easy, and tools doing this come not cheap. I worked more than 10 years in the very core that handled the inflexion point of data in a huge International company, right in the pllce where the models were implemented, so I come from a place where input data needed to be obtained in very specific ways, and considering very edge scenarios, this gave me a lot of context about data processing, validation, fetching, querying, filtering, deduplication, validation, formatting. Then this data was moved across different platforms monolithic(mainframe), distributed (AIX and Linux), and Cloud(AWS), which gave me context about volumes, access, governance, hashing, masking, transference, encryption, compression. After that the data was used as input for calculations, complex ones, models, of which logic was provided by 3rd parties, and there I learned about validation, audits, aggregation, calculations, concurrence, parallel processing, optimization, feature engineering, modeling, external data handling or injection of data on models, data dictionaries, population samples, and multiplatform behavior consistency/results verification. During the middle of this we usually validated with final user, which used to be a 3rd party inside the company, or an external party in another company, there we had alot of interesting meetings about data and models where I got context about data security, data products, customer classification, scores, crosscompany data transfer. And finally once models were ready we implemented or handed over them to other teams/platforms/clients and while doping that I got a grasp of turnover documentation, acceptance and audit tests and approvals, multi team communication and coordination for releases, implementations, pipelines, data transfer, and source data creations. Having all this behind me now, I can see the bast amount of expertise that was required there, but I can't find anything like that near me in the pyme world on chile or south america, I looked and asked chatgpt, deepseek, claude, and others, and nothing sofar, closest thing are too basic, or too expensive and big, and require a data analyst or scientist to make sense of it.
So, this is my try into building an analytics engine that is friendly, easy to use, and gives quick insights and contrast against others and the environment to take actions with data.
I imagine the platform having a landing page with part of this vision, that communicates how tracking data can make you grow in your business and how aggregate anonymized data can be a great tool to know where is your business.
Then a login page, once logged, a dashboard with the companies that you have access to see and upload data, user settings, analytics, processes running for uploads and previous uploads, panel to historical data, with a dropdown for year and boxes to select the month,one box per month, with labels to indicate the quarter and some aggregated indicators.
Then when you select a month the analytics panel loads for that month, showing you all the indicators for the selected view (which is a dropdown to select owner, operations, analyst or any other view which will be standard at the beggining - admin view here only show to admin users in the platform.). This panel will have options to change of month to view, year, or change to another temporal views like weekly view, hourly view, quarter view, year view. All these views might share components, but will have different templates and vary also depending on the user view(owner, analyst, operations, etc).
There will be also a buff/debuff section that will show indicators that might buff/debuff your pyme in a given time period.
One huge consideration is that latin american, and specially chilean people like compact, high value, visual, obvious information, we are less patient than US or Europe market (personal point of view), and we are highly adverse to risk. So, loading data and getting insights from it must feel like a superpower(BUT WITHOUT GIVING ADVICE, the app cannot be financial advice, we can offer options, show possibilities, explain past events or metrics, and forecast information statisticaly nothing else.)